v0.1.8rc1 (March 17, 2023)
--------------------------

This is a minor change performed from ``v0.1.7`` and adaptations.  

Adapations and Features
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- deprecate single :term:`EDI` export to multiple EDI outputs (:meth:`watex.methods.EM.exportedis`)

- simplify the remote dataset path loader and BaseSteps :class:`watex.cases.BaseSteps` transformation using ``importlib.resources``.

- add new QC :func:`watex.utils.qc` function applicable outside the :term:`EM` processing QC method
  :meth:`watex.methods.Processing.qc` for consistent EM analyses.

- Add multiple position coordinate transformations from UTM to latitude/longitude (:meth:`watex.site.Location.to_latlon_in`) and 
  vice versa (:meth:`watex.site.Location.to_utm_in`).

- Set a slice components property `_c_` as  a :class:`watex.view.TPlot` attribute used by all 
  related methods.

- update in the deprecated Numpy alaises: ``np.float``, ``np.complex`` for the builtin `float`,`complex`.
  See  https://numpy.org/devdocs/release/1.20.0-notes.html#deprecations

- Add new module ( :class:`watex.site.Profile`) in :mod:`watex.site` as supplement site data transformation. Gives
  supplement materials (methods) for data transformation. 


Bug fixes
~~~~~~~~~~~

- Bug fixed in automating the :term:`Bagoue region` dataset preparation. The :func:`_assert_sl_target` is removed then the 
  `AttributeError` generated from missing `X` in  :meth:`watex.cases.prepare.BaseSteps.stratifydata` is fixed.

- fix bug when buffering the frequency when restoring the tensor :meth:`watex.methods.Processing.zrestore`. 

- Fix negative resistivity generation in :term:`VES` from :func:`watex.datasets.make_ves`. 
  Use absolute instead.

