v0.1.4 (October 7, 2022)
----------------------------

This is a minor release with a change in objective and bug fixes for issues identified since ``v0.1.3``. This version is the first 
uploaded using the `PyData-sphinx-Theme <https://pydata-sphinx-theme.readthedocs.io/en/latest/>`__. The new documentation 
is built after fixing many minor bugs and improving the docstring documentation.  

New features 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~
- |Major change| Upload the :term:`SEG`- :term:`EDI` datasets. Henceforth, a sample of EDI data can be called for demonstration 
  rather than using the data in ``data/`` directory. Retrieving a sample of EDI is possible through the function 
  :func:`watex.datasets.load_edis`. 
 
- |Feature| Upload the possibility to generate the synthetic :term:`ERP` and :term:`VES` data thanks to :func:`watex.make_erp` and 
  :func:`watex.make_ves` respectively. 

- |Enhancement| Revised the EM module by implementing the :meth:`watex.methods.em.Processing.skew` methods for computing the geological structures 
  dimensionality. This function is useful to determine which type of inversion to use for modeling :term:`NSAMT` data. 
  
- |Enhancement| Generated Hydrogeology module :mod:`watex.methods.hydro` from hydrogeological parameters computation from the 
  :mod:`watex.utils.hydroutils` utility 
  
- |Major change| Many other utilities have been added in :mod:`watex.utils.funcutils` and :mod:`watex.utils.plotutils` for computation. 

- |Enhancement| Document all the :class:`watex.exceptions` module and reformat the :code:`WATex` API documentation 

- |Feature| Add a profiling report in the gallery examples. See :ref:`sphx_glr_glr_examples_base_plot_profiling_report.py`. 

- |Major change| Replace the shorthand of ``fa`` with ``factor`` in the new version of factor analysis :mod:`watex.analysis.factor`. 

Bug fixes
~~~~~~~~~~
- |Fix| Fix the typos in ``README.txt`` by changing the ``Analysis`` by ``Analyses`` since many analyses are performed with many scripts 
  in the :mod:`watex.analysis` module. 
 
- |Fix| Fix the bug in :func:`watex.view.biPlot`. Rename the ``xlabel`` and ``ylabel``. 

- |Fix| Fixed bug in :func:`watex.show_versions`  to output the hard dependencies and update the public API in ``watex.__init__``. 

- |Fix| Fixed bug in :term:`ERP` and :term:`VES` table for formatting the ERP and VES data sets documentation. 

- |Fix| Fix the bug in :func:`watex.analysis.decomposition.linear_discriminant_analysis` mathematical formula in the docstrings. Henceforth 
  the function :func:`~watex.analysis.decomposition.linear_discriminant_analysis` returns weight factor of :term:`X` transformed as : 

  .. code-block:: python 
   
     >>> def linear_discriminant_analysis(X,y, ...):
             ...
             return X.dot(W) if return_X else W 

- |Fix| Fixed bug in :meth:`watex.base.Data.profilingReport`. Exception henceforth occurs if the optional dependency ``pandas-profiling``
  is not installed yet for report generation. 
  
- |Deprecated| Delete the module ``hua`` from datasets and replace by :mod:`watex.datasets.sets` for fast loading the inner datasets. 

- |Major change| Move tensor exceptions ``ZError`` to the exceptions module :mod:`watex.exceptions` and revised the :term:`EM` exceptions errors 
  in the whole :mod:`watex.externals` module. 

- |Fix| Many other bugs were fixed in :mod:`watex.utils.plotutils` after several tests. 


