
v0.1.1 (June 3, 2022)
------------------------

This is a minor release with some bug fixes and adaptations to changes in watex :ref:`dependencies <dependencies>`. There are 
also several new features. This release is the beginning of writing the project to fit the common open-source library design in the 
literature. The release ``v0.1.1`` can be considered as the starting point of the :code:`watex` project design. 

New features
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
- |Enhancement| Implement a single reducers ``Reducers`` class focused on the unsupervised methods dimensionality reduction ( ``PCA``, ``kPCA``, ``LLE``
  and ``iPCA``). 

- |Enhancement| Improve the transformer module (:mod:`watex.transformers`) by adding the :class:`watex.transformers.StratifiedUsingBaseCategory` for 
  auto-category stratification. 

- |Enhancement| Improved the :class:`watex.cases.BaseSteps` by adding the default pipeline :func:`watex.cases.prepare.default_pipeline`
  for processing the data out of the class in any other datasets.
  
- |Enhancement| Rewritten the :mod:`watex.cases` module  to be a boilerplate module for any kind of dataset that objective is to predict 
  the :term:`groundwater` :term:`flow` rate from the dedicated predictor [:term:`X` and :term:`y`]. 
  
- |Feature| Designed the :mod:`watex.methods.electrical` module to supplement the :mod:`watex.methods.erp` module that is purely focused on the 
  auto-detection. The new module :mod:`watex.methods.electrical` is meaningful, efficient, and complete by henceforth implementing the constraints 
  which are mostly encountered during the :term:`CDWS` project and affected the drilling location positioning. An example of 
  constraints can be found in the :term:`Case-history in Bagoue-region` paper. 
  

Bug fixes and adaptations
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- |Fix| Hashed the train and test split using the id methods  to avoid  an error when singular data is 
  passed to :meth:`BaseSteps.stratifydata`, issuing a warning instead. 

- |Fix| Fixed a bug where values would be excluded from categorical plots from :class:`watex.view.EvalPlot` when only :term:`y` was 
  a pandas ``Series`` with a non-default index.

- |Fix| Fixed a bug when passing a ``norm`` object and using color annotations in the ``pobj`` alias of :class:`watex.property.BasePlot`.

- |Fix| Fixed a bug where data were not rearranged to match the :term:`X` data in :func:`watex.cases.prepare.base_transform`and 
  standardized the output format of custom color palette functions.

- |Fix| Fixed a bug where legends for numerical variables in a relational plot could show a surprisingly large number of decimal places.

- |Enhancement| Improved robustness to missing values in :class:`watex.view.QuickPlot` distribution plots.


