v0.2.4 (May 26, 2023)
--------------------------

These are minor changes  in ``v0.2.3`` that shows fugs fixed, features and improvements.  

- |API change| Change performed in :mod:`watex.geology.core`. The  class ``Base`` is renamed as :class:`watex.geology.core.GeoBase`. 

- |Fix| Bug fixed in :func:`watex.utils.plot_logging` when  imputing NaN values in the data. Indeed, henceforth all the column of the data 
  that is composed entirely with NaN is removed automatically. This fixes the bug occurs in when the scaled  feature dimension are higher than the 
  original ones.  

- |Fix| Bug fixed in :func:`watex.utils.to_numeric_dtypes` when sanitizing the dataframe with integer columns. In such case, the data sanitizing
  is not possible. It henceforth passes rather than raising error. However when column are mixed ( numeric and string ), all should be 
  converted to string before sanitization. 

- |Feature| :class:`watex.geology.drilling.DSBorehole`  works with data collected in a single borehole. For instance, the arrangement 
  of ``h502`` data in :func:`watex.datasets.load_hlogs`. Data columns are the all attributes of the object and any non-alphateic character 
  is replaced by ``_``. For instance, a column name ``layer thickness`` should have an attribute named ``layer_thickness``.
 
- |Feature| :class:`watex.geology.drilling.DSBoreholes` works similarly as :class:`watex.geology.drilling.DSBorehole` but uses multiple 
  borehole data. note the ``'s'`` at the end of the class. Here, each borehole (row) is an object which encompasses all columns as attributes.
  To have full control of how data must be retrieved as an object, ``holeid`` parameter must be set. For instance, to retrieve the borehole 
  with ID equals to `bx02`, after fitting the class with appropriate parameters, attibute `hole depth` ( if exist in the data) can be retrieved 
  as ``self.hole.bx02.hole_depth``. 

- |Feature| Add :func:`watex.utils.funcutils.replace_data` to replace items in the data `n-` times. This is useful for data duplication 

- |Feature| add :class:`watex.utils.funcutils.make_obj_consistent_if`. Function combine default values to item to create default consistent 
  iterable objects.  This is valid if  the size of item does not fit the number of expected iterable objects. Commonly this work in synergy with 
  :func:`watex.utils.funcutils.random_sampling`. 

- |Feature| :func:`watex.utils.funcutils.convert_value_in` converts value based on the reference unit. Mostly used the known SI units like 
  `meters (m) `, `grammes (g)` etc.
  
- |Enhancement| Supplement boreholes data are added to :func:`watex.datasets.load_hlogs`. They include boreholes ``'h805' ,'h1102' ,'h1405', 'h2602','h803',
  'h1104', 'h604', 'h2003'`` and  ``'h1602'``. 
 
- |Enhancement| Function :func:`watex.utils.to_numeric_dtypes` accepts `drop_nan_columns` passed as ``True`` by default with dropped the NaN rows 
  and NaN columns in the data. Moreover, ``reset_index`` and ``drop_index`` are available to new data index management. 

- |Enhancement| Function :func:`watex.datasets.load_mxs` enforces attribute ``X`` and ``y`` when object is retrieved. For instance, fetching the 
  the training set scaled ``X`` should be: 

  .. code-block:: python 

     >>> import watex as wx 
     >>> X_scaled = wx.datasets.load_mxs (key ='scale').X 
     >>> # or by merely calling the boilerplate `fetch_data` function as 
     >>> X_scaled =wx.fetch_data ('mxs', key ='scale').X 

  It also accepts `test_ratio` to split the training and test sets via  ``split_X_y=True``. Note that ``return_X_y=True``  is not necessary when 
  `split_X_y` is set to ``True``. 

- |Enhancement | :class:`watex.transformers.featurize_X` accepts `model` as parameter. It is  useful to featurize the test data separately 
  from the train data to avoid leakage information. If `sparse` parameter is set to ``True``, the training and testing data are outputted in sparse coordinates format 
  or compressed sparse row format that is controlled by the `sparsity` parameter. 





