v0.2.0 (March 25, 2023)
--------------------------

This is major changes  performed from ``v0.1``.  

- |Major feature| Add impedance tensor multiple correction class (:class:`watex.methods.ZC`) and gives opportunity 
  to export new :term:`tensor` data into :term:`EDI` files if the argument ``out=True``. For instance: 

  - :meth:`watex.methods.ZC.remove_static_shift` remove the static shift from correction factor from x and y using 
    the spatial median filter. In :meth:`watex.methods.ZC.remove_static_shift` , the :meth:`watex.externals.z.ResPhase.compute_resistivity_phase` 
    is initialized with the corrected impedance :term:`tensor` Z three dimensional array and number of frequency. 
  
  - :meth:`watex.methods.ZC.remove_ss_emap` removes the static schift using the EMAP moving average filters such as:

    - ``'ama'``: Adaptative moving average 
    - ``'tma'``: Trimming moving-average 
    - ``'flma'``: Fixed-length dipole moving average 
  
  - :meth:`watex.methods.ZC.remove_distortion` removes distortion D form an observed impedance tensor Z. 

  - :meth:`watex.methods.ZC.get_ss_correction_factors` computes the static shift correction factor from a station using a 
    spatial median filter.

- |Major feature| Add new module ( :class:`watex.site.Profile`) in :mod:`watex.site` as supplement site data transformation. Gives
  supplement materials (methods) for data transformation such as: 
  
  - :meth:`watex.site.Profile.distance` computes the distance between profile coordinates points 

  - :meth:`watex.site.Profile.bearing` computes the bearing between calculate bearing between two coordinates.

  - :meth:`watex.site.Profile.scale_positions` scale the position coordinates along ``x`` and ``y``. This is useful in complex terrain ( 
    high topography )

  - :meth:`watex.site.Profile.shift_positions` shifts the ``x`` and ``y``  position coordinates from the step and angle.
   
  - :meth:`watex.site.Profile.dms2ll` transforms array ``x`` and ``y`` from DD:MM:SS to degree decimal -longitude (x) and latitude (y)

  - :meth:`watex.site.Profile.ll2dms` does the revert process of :meth:`watex.site.Profile.dms2ll`
  
  - :meth:`watex.site.Profile.make_xy_coordinates` generates synthetic coordinates from references latitude and longitude 
    from ``x`` and ``y``.

  - :meth:`watex.site.Profile.interpolate` interpolates ``x``, ``y`` and ``elev`` ( if applicable).

- |Feature| :meth:`watex.view.TPlot.plot_corrections` allows to visualize the static shift correction as well as the distortion. 

- |Major Feature| New features for interpolation and drop bad frequencies at once to avoid a gynastic using Numpy 
  and :func:`watex.utils.get2dtensor`: 

  - :meth:`watex.methods.Processing.interpolate_z`: Interpolate :term:`tensor` Z  and return new interpolated Z objects. Here is 
    an example: 

    .. code-block:: python 

      import watex as wx 
      sedis = wx.fetch_data ('huayuan', samples = 12 , return_data =True , key='raw') # collected twelve raw data from Huayuan 
      p = wx.EMProcessing ().fit(sedis) 
      # Let's visualize seven Z values at the first site component xy 
      p.ediObjs_[0].Z.z[:, 0, 1][:7]
      Out[1]: array([ 4165.6 +2070.13j,  7072.81+6892.41j,  8725.84+5874.15j,
               14771.8 -2831.28j, 21243.7 -6802.36j,  6381.48+3411.65j,
                5927.85+5074.27j])
      Zcol = p.interpolate_z (sedis)
      Zcol [0].z[:, 0, 1 ][:7] # let visualize the seven interpolated Z 
      Out[2]: array([ 4165.6 +2070.13j,  4165.6 +2070.13j,  7072.81+6892.41j,
                8725.84+5874.15j, 14771.8 -2831.28j, 21243.7 -6802.36j,
                6381.48+3411.65j])

  - :meth:`watex.methods.Processing.drop_frequencies`: drop useless frequencies in the :term:`EDI` or :term:`Z` objects using either the 
    tolerance parameter `tol` from :meth:`watex.methods.Processing.qc` or :func:`watex.utils.qc` or by setting 
    mannually the frequencies. Here is an example:

    .. code-block:: python 

      import watex as wx 
      sedis = wx.fetch_data ('huayuan', samples = 12 , key='raw').data 
      Zcol = wx.EMProcessing ().fit(sedis).drop_frequencies (freqs = [49800 , 29700]  )
      Zcol [5].freq[:7] 
      Out[3]: array([81920., 70000., 58800., 41600., 35000., 24700., 20800.])
 
- |Enhancement| Update :func:`watex.utils.get2dtensor` to be able to output the complex data type especially when impendance tensor Z 
  is given. This avoid ``ComplexWarning`` casting wich only keep the ``real`` part. 

- |Enhancement| in :meth:`watex.view.TPlot.plot_corrections`. Use the frequency of each site rather than the complete frequency of 
  the survey investigation since all sites could not have the same frequency length. This will fix the possible crash when plotting the raw 
  :term:`EDI` data. 

- |Feature| Add a quick model evalutation with :func:`watex.models.naive_evaluation`

- |Enhancement| ``force`` parameters is henceforth passed to :class:`watex.methods.DCProfiling` and :class:`watex.methods.ResistivityProfiling` 
  Indeed,  in principle :class:`watex.methods.DCProfiling` expects users to provide either :term:`DC` objects or pandas dataframe. This 
  supposes that users have already transformed its data from sheets to a frame. If not the case, setting `force` to ``True`` 
  henceforth constrains henceforth the algorithm to do the both tasks at once.