v0.2.1 (April 20, 2023)
--------------------------

These are minor changes  in ``v0.2.0`` that shows fugs fixed, features and improvements.  

- |Fix| bug in :func:`watex.utils.exmath.type_` to determine the type ``CB2P`` in the case unique consecutive 
  indexes from type mecanism is given like ``['yes', 'no']``. 
 
- |Fix| Bug fixed in :meth:`watex.methods.Processing.ama` computation. Rather than using the raw phase for recomputing the shifted data, it henceforth 
  uses the coefficient factor calculated from the corrected apparent resistivities to recompute the new phase. Then use the new phase for recomputing 
  the impendance tensor `z` in turn when the objective is to output new corrected impedance tensor from parameter ``out`` of :class:`watex.methods.Processing` class. 
 
- |Feature| Add smoothing approaches from :mod:`watex.utils.exmath` for dropping or masking noised data in :term:`NSAMT` survey : 

  - :func:`watex.utils.smooth1d` polishes the one-dimensional data while  :func:`watex.utils.smoothing` smoothes data along a given axis in 
    two-dimensional arrays. 

  - :func:`watex.utils.rhophi2z` converts impedance-style information given in Rho/Phi format into complex valued Z. It is more consistent 
    compared to :func:`watex.utils.exmath.rhoa2z`

- |Feature| :func:`watex.utils.funcutils.rename_files` gives several approaches for quick renaming/shifting files especially when dealing with :term:`EDI` files. 

- |Feature| Add new methods  in  :class:`watex.site.Profile`   from :mod:`watex.site` as supplement site data io and visualization. 
  
  - :meth:`watex.site.Profile.out` gives many ways for exporting coordinates data points including elevation

  - :meth:`watex.site.Profile.plot` gives a base plot for data visualization.

- |Feature| :class:`watex.methods.DCMagic` accepts the :term:`ERP` and :term:`VES` data at once and smartly differentiate the both then compute the 
  relevant features and aggreate them into  :term:`DC` features that can be exported for training or validation. 

- |Feature| :meth:`watex.view.TPlot.plot_rhophi` plots corrected apparent resistivities using the :term:`EMAP` filters such as 
  ``['tma'| 'ama'|'flma']`` or using the static shift (``ss``) or distorsion (``dist``) filters 
    
- |Enhancement| Improve the :term:`EMAP` filters by adding new parameters  ``drop_outliers`` and ``smooth`` for removing outliers and smoothing data along 
  the frequencies axis using :meth:`watex.methods.Processing.tma` for trimming-moving average, :meth:`watex.methods.Processing.ama` for adaptative moving average based 
  on ideas or Torres-Verdin  and :meth:`watex.methods.Processing.tma` for fixed length dipole-moving average. This efficiently deals with the static shift 
  effect when interferences noises are strong enough.
  
- |Enhancement| Update :meth:`watex.methods.ZC.remove_ss_emap`. Henceforth correct tensor data by applying the smoothing 
  approached along the frequencies axis using the ``smooth`` and ``drop_outliers`` parameters. 

- |Enhancement| `station` parameter is henceforth available and can be passed to ``auto`` to get the conductive zone from :term:`ERP` to plot 
  the profiling using :func:`watex.utils.plotutils.plot_profiling`. In addion , dataframe can be used instead provided that it contains 
  the `resistivity` column.

- |Enhancement| update :func:`watex.datasets.make_erp` and :func:`watex.datasets.make_ves` . :term:`VES` points coordinates ( `xy`) is used to 
  specify the location of the sounding points. 

- |Enhancement| Since sounding locations is useful to build the whole :term:`DC` features, :func:`watex.utils.coreutils.vesSelector` accepts the coordinates 
  location through the parameter `xy_coords`

- |Enhancement| Likewise :meth:`watex.methods.VerticalSounding.summary` henceforth includes the sounding points location ( longitude , latitude ) or 
  (easting, northing ) and can be passed to the parameters `xycoords` if coordinates are not included in the dataframe. 






