v0.2.5 (June 22, 2023)
--------------------------

These are minor changes  in ``v0.2.4`` that shows fugs fixed, features and improvements.  

- |API change| :func:`watex.utils.plot_roc_curves` parameter `all` is deprecated and is replaced by `kind`. `kind` argument by default
  is set to ``inone`` which groups all the model plots into one figure. It can be ``individual`` or ``single`` to plot each model separately. 

- |Fix| Fix AttributeError of ``interp_coords`` passed to :class:`watex.geology.DSBorehole`. ``interp_coords`` is removed from :class:`watex.geology.DSBorehole`
  and only available when using :class:`watex.geology.DSBoreholes`. 

- |Fix| :meth:`watex.site.Location.to_latlon_in` and :meth:`watex.site.Location.to_utm_in` henceforth accept a single float value for convertion 
  operation. 

- |Major Feature| :class:`watex.geology.drilling.DSDrill` manages the drilling datasets. The class extracts, read and writes the drlling data. 
  The arrangement of the data follows the `oasis montaj <https://www.seequent.com/products-solutions/geosoft-oasis-montaj/>`_ software drill data 
  arrangement with peroperties such as `collar`, `geology` and `geochemistry samples`. 

- |Feature| :func:`watex.utils.get_azimuth` computes azimuth from the coordinate locations ( latitude,  longitude) or using easting/northing 

- |Feature| :func:`watex.utils.smart_thickness_ranker` computes the layer thicknesses and rank strata accordingly.

- |Feature| :func:`watex.utils.geotools.get_thick_from_range` computes the layer thickness using the depth range (top-bottom) passed as a litteral string.
  Its sibling is :func:`watex.utils.geotools.get_thick_from_values` which computes thickness based only on thick -values.

- |Feature| :func:`watex.utils.storeOrwritehdf5` polishes and stores data to hdf5. It offers an opportunity to write sanitized 
  data to csv file. 

- |Feature| Nanshang project dataset loaded. It is composed of engineering and hydrogeological drillings. For retrieving the engineering data, 
  user must pass the argument ``ns`` to the parameter `key` and ``b0`` for hydrogeological drillings. User can call the dataset using 
  :func:`watex.datasets.load_nlogs` or pass ``nlogs`` as an argument to the positional parameter `tag` of :func:`watex.datasets.fetch_data`. 

- |Enhancement| :class:`watex.geology.DSBorehole` has new method called :meth:`watex.geology.DSBorehole.set_strata` to randomly 
  generated strata layers with their corresponding electrical properties. 

- |Enhancement| :func:`watex.utils.coreutils.read_data` accepts `sanitize` as parameter. It allows sanitization data using minimum cleaning 
  tips like replace non-ASCII characters by ``'_'`` in each colum items. Then, if applicable it casts data values to numeric when a 
  serie value is convertible and also drop full NaN columns and rows in the frame. 

- |Enhancement| :func:`watex.utils.plotutils.plot_text` henceforth returns Matplotlib.Axes and accepts additionals parameters like 
  `mcolor` and `lcolor` for markers and line colors. 

- |Enhancement| :meth:`watex.site.Location.to_utm_in` and :meth:`watex.site.Location.to_latlon_in` accepts data parameter expecting a pandas dataframe 
  containing either the longitude/latitude or easting/northing coordinates. 





