v0.3.3 (March 15, 2024)
-----------------------

This release of watex introduces a series of refinements and additions to the API compared to version ``v0.3.2``. The updates 
focus on enhancing the user experience through better error handling, performance improvements, and the introduction of new f
unctionalities for geophysical data visualization and analysis.

- |Fix| Addressed an `IndexError` in :meth:`~watex.methods.EM` that was triggered by providing an incorrect path or when EDI 
  files were missing. The system has been improved to handle such scenarios gracefully, ensuring enhanced error reporting and 
  overall system robustness.

- |Enhancement| Updated the :meth:`watex.utils.plotutils.plot_errorbar` function by introducing a `show_error_bars` parameter. 
  This allows for optional suppression of error bars in plots, offering a cleaner visualization option when error bars are 
  unnecessary or might clutter the display.

- |Enhancement| The newly introduced :meth:`watex.utils.plotutils.plot_tensors2` function replaces the original `plot_tensors` 
  method, leveraging the `show_error_bars` parameter from `plot_errorbar`. This update facilitates a more tailored approach to the 
  visualization of electromagnetic tensor data, incorporating feedback from our user community for a more intuitive plotting 
  experience.

- |Improvement| Enhanced the error handling mechanisms and user feedback for various data loading and processing operations within 
  watex. These improvements aim to streamline the debugging process, making it easier for both developers and users to diagnose and 
  resolve issues.

- |Performance| Implemented optimizations in key computational routines and data handling processes. These changes contribute to 
  faster analysis throughput and more efficient memory usage when working with large geophysical datasets, ensuring that watex can 
  handle complex analysis tasks with improved performance.

- |Feature| Introduced a new analysis module :func:`watex.utils.plot_tensors2` designed for advanced geophysical interpretation tasks. While still in its early 
  stages, this module lays the groundwork for sophisticated analytical capabilities that will be expanded in future releases.

- |Documentation| Expanded the documentation to include comprehensive examples and detailed guides for the newly introduced 
  features. This effort aims to enhance understanding and utilization of watex's capabilities, supporting users in achieving 
  their analysis objectives with the tool.

These updates reflect our commitment to continually enhancing watex based on user input and the evolving needs of the 
geophysical analysis community. We value and appreciate the feedback and contributions from our users that drive the ongoing 
development and improvement of watex.





