v0.3.0 (November 22, 2023)
---------------------------

This release introduces significant enhancements and bug fixes over version ``v0.2.8``.

- |API change| The datasets ``h.h5`` and ``n.npz``, pertaining to Hongliu hydrogeological logging and Nansha land subsidence respectively, have been removed from the software package. Users can still access these datasets as usual, albeit through remote downloads. This modification substantially reduces the :mod:`watex.datasets` package size.

- |API change| The classes ``watex.methods.em.Processing`` and ``watex.methods.em.ZC`` have been deprecated. They are now replaced by :class:`watex.methods.em.EMAP` and :class:`watex.methods.em.MT`, respectively, aligning with our ongoing efforts to streamline and enhance our API.

- |API change| The method ``watex.utils.funcutils.fit_by_ll`` is now deprecated in favor of :func:`watex.utils.funcutils.fit_ll`, as part of our continuous API refinement.

- |Fix| A critical bug associated with the static shift removal in :term:`AMT` data has been addressed. The formerly deprecated method ``watex.methods.em.ZC.get_ss_correction_factors`` is succeeded by :meth:`watex.methods.em.MT.get_ss_correction_factors`. This update ensures that correction factors are applied individually to each station, enhancing precision. Additionally, users are provided the flexibility to manually input correction factors ``ss_fx`` and ``ss_fy`` into a list.

- |Feature| The function :func:`watex.utils.plotutils.plot_tensors` now visualizes resistivity and phase tensors, alongside the real and imaginary impedance, offering comprehensive data analysis capabilities.

- |Feature| Through :func:`watex.utils.torres_verdin_filter`, users can now calculate the adaptive moving average of data arrays based on Torres and Verdin methodologies, facilitating advanced data processing.

- |Feature| Noise removal from individual components ``xx``, ``yy``, ``xy``, or ``yx`` is now possible with :func:`watex.methods.em.filter_noises`, enhancing data clarity and analysis quality.

- |Feature| The method :meth:`watex.methods.em.MT.remove_noises` is introduced to eliminate artifacts and smooth data, ensuring cleaner and more reliable datasets for analysis.

- |Feature| The new function :func:`watex.methods.em.drop_frequencies` allows users to discard bad frequencies or those lacking consistent data within EDI files, streamlining data preprocessing.

- |Feature| With :func:`watex.utils.plotutils.plot_sounding`, users can now plot vertical electrical resistivity data, broadening the scope of geophysical exploration analysis.

- |Feature| :func:`watex.utils.baseutils.download_file2` emerges as the preferred function for remote file downloads, offering a consistent and reliable alternative to the previously utilized :func:`watex.utils.baseutils.get_remote_data`. Both functions require the ``requests`` library for operation.

- |Enhancement| The :func:`watex.utils.plot_profiling` function now supports the `ax` parameter, providing greater flexibility in data visualization.

- |Enhancement| In an improvement over previous versions, :func:`watex.view.TPlot.plot_rhophi` now accommodates the `kind` parameter, allowing for differentiated plotting styles across multiple stations.

- |Enhancement| The issue of overlapping x-labels in :func:`watex.utils.exmath.plotOhmicArea` has been successfully resolved, ensuring clearer and more legible visual presentations.






